README.md, before:

![logo](relay.logo.large.png)

Relay is a high-performance TCP relay service that receives Zscaler ZPA LSS (Log Streaming Service) data and forwards it to Splunk HEC (HTTP Event Collector). The application acts as a streaming middleware that persists logs locally as NDJSON files and optionally forwards them to Splunk HEC in real-time.

## Features

- **TCP Server**: Accepts incoming connections from Zscaler ZPA LSS
- **Data Validation**: JSON validation for incoming log lines
- **Local Storage**: Daily-rotated NDJSON file persistence
- **Splunk HEC Integration**: Optional real-time forwarding to Splunk's HTTP Event Collector
- **TLS Support**: Optional TLS encryption for incoming connections
- **Access Control**: CIDR-based IP filtering
- **Configuration Flexibility**: Command-line flags with optional YAML configuration
- **Template Generation**: Built-in configuration template generator
- **Health Checks**: Smoke testing for Splunk HEC connectivity
- **Graceful Shutdown**: Handles system signals for clean service termination

## How it Works

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    participant AC as ZPA App Connector (appliance)
    participant ZC as Zscaler Cloud
    participant LSS as ZPA Log Streaming Service
    participant R as Relay
    participant FS as Local Storage (NDJSON)
    participant HEC as Splunk HEC (/services/collector/raw)

    Note over AC,ZC: Operational & audit data flows from App Connector up to Zscaler Cloud
    AC-->>ZC: Telemetry, audit, user/app metrics (proprietary)

    Note over LSS,R: LSS initiates outbound connection to your receiver
    LSS-)R: TCP/TLS connect to relay:port
    activate R

    loop Streaming (long-lived socket)
      LSS-->>R: NDJSON event "\n" (one JSON object per line)
      R->>FS: append line to zpa-YYYY-MM-DD.ndjson
      alt HEC forwarding enabled
        R->>HEC: HTTPS POST (optional gzip) with original JSON line
        HEC-->>R: 2xx (ingested)  / non-2xx (retry/backoff)
      end
    end
    deactivate R

    Note over R,HEC: Relay may batch/retry. Splunk indexes by event time or ingest time depending on props
```

## Requirements

- Go 1.21 or later
- Access to a Splunk instance with HEC enabled
- Network connectivity between Zscaler ZPA and the relay service

## Installation

### From Source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/scottbrown/relay.git
cd relay
go build -o relay cmd/relay/main.go
```

### Using Task Runner

If you have [Task](https://taskfile.dev/) installed:

```bash
task build
```

This creates the binary at `.build/relay`.

## Configuration

### Configuration File (Optional)

The application can optionally use a YAML configuration file. Create one using the template generator:

```bash
./relay -t > config.yml
```

Example configuration:

```yaml
# TCP/TLS server settings
listen_addr: ":9015"                    # TCP listen address (e.g., :9015)
tls_cert_file: ""                       # TLS cert file (optional)
tls_key_file: ""                        # TLS key file (optional)

# Storage settings
output_dir: "./zpa-logs"                # Directory to persist NDJSON files

# Splunk HEC settings
splunk_hec_url: "https://your-instance.splunkcloud.com:8088/services/collector/raw"
splunk_token: "your-hec-token-here"     # Splunk HEC token
source_type: "zpa:lss"                  # Splunk sourcetype

# Security settings
allowed_cidrs: ""                       # Comma-separated CIDRs allowed to connect (optional)

# Performance settings
gzip_hec: true                          # Gzip compress payloads to HEC
max_line_bytes: 1048576                 # Max bytes per JSON line (1 MiB)
```

### Generate Configuration Template

```bash
./relay -t > config.yml
```

### Configuration Options

| Option | Description | Required | Default |
|--------|-------------|----------|---------|
| `listen_addr` | TCP listen address | No | `:9015` |
| `tls_cert_file` | TLS certificate file | No | - |
| `tls_key_file` | TLS key file | No | - |
| `output_dir` | Directory for NDJSON files | No | `./zpa-logs` |
| `splunk_hec_url` | Splunk HEC raw endpoint URL | No | - |
| `splunk_token` | Splunk HEC authentication token | No | - |
| `source_type` | Splunk sourcetype | No | `zpa:lss` |
| `allowed_cidrs` | Comma-separated allowed CIDRs | No | - |
| `gzip_hec` | Gzip compress HEC payloads | No | `true` |
| `max_line_bytes` | Max bytes per JSON line | No | `1048576` |

## Usage

### Basic Usage

```bash
# Run with default settings (local storage only)
./relay

# Run with Splunk HEC forwarding
./relay -hec-url https://your-splunk.com:8088/services/collector/raw -hec-token your-token

# Run with configuration file
./relay -f /path/to/config.yml

# Test Splunk HEC connectivity
./relay -smoke-test -hec-url https://your-splunk.com:8088/services/collector/raw -hec-token your-token
```

### Command-Line Options

```bash
./relay [options]

Options:
  -listen string
        TCP listen address (e.g., :9015)
  -tls-cert string
        TLS cert file (optional)
  -tls-key string
        TLS key file (optional)
  -out string
        Directory to persist NDJSON
  -hec-url string
        Splunk HEC raw endpoint
  -hec-token string
        Splunk HEC token
  -hec-sourcetype string
        Splunk sourcetype
  -allow-cidrs string
        Comma-separated CIDRs allowed to connect
  -hec-gzip
        Gzip compress payloads to HEC
  -max-line-bytes int
        Max bytes per JSON line
  -f string
        Configuration file path
  -t    Output configuration template and exit
  -smoke-test
        Test Splunk HEC connectivity and exit
```

### Running Directly with Go

```bash
go run cmd/relay/main.go -hec-url https://your-splunk.com:8088/services/collector/raw -hec-token your-token
```

## Architecture

### Data Flow

1. **TCP/TLS Listener**: Accepts connections on the configured address (default :9015)
2. **Access Control**: Optional CIDR-based filtering for incoming connections
3. **Data Validation**: Incoming NDJSON data is validated and line-limited for security
4. **Local Storage**: Data is persisted locally to daily-rotated files (zpa-YYYY-MM-DD.ndjson)
5. **Real-time Forwarding**: Optional concurrent forwarding to Splunk HEC raw endpoint with retry logic

### Event Format

Data is forwarded to Splunk HEC as raw JSON events (one per line) without additional wrapping. The sourcetype is configurable (default: "zpa:lss").

## Monitoring and Logging

The service logs to stdout and includes:
- Connection status messages
- Batch processing information
- Error conditions
- Graceful shutdown notifications

## Development

### Prerequisites

- Go 1.24.4+
- Task runner (optional)

### Building

```bash
# Using Go directly
go build -o relay cmd/relay/main.go

# Using Task
task build
```

### Running Tests

```bash
go test -v
```

### Dependencies

- `gopkg.in/yaml.v3` - YAML configuration parsing
- Go standard library only

## Deployment

### Systemd Service

Create `/etc/systemd/system/relay.service`:

```ini
[Unit]
Description=Zscaler ZPA LSS Relay Service
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple
User=relay
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/relay -f /etc/relay/config.yml
Restart=always
RestartSec=5

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Enable and start:

```bash
sudo systemctl enable relay
sudo systemctl start relay
```

### Docker

```dockerfile
FROM golang:1.24-alpine AS builder
WORKDIR /app
COPY . .
RUN go build -o relay cmd/relay/main.go

FROM alpine:latest
RUN apk --no-cache add ca-certificates
WORKDIR /root/
COPY --from=builder /app/relay .
COPY config.yml .
CMD ["./relay", "-f", "config.yml"]
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Connection Refused**: Ensure the listen port is not in use and firewall allows connections
2. **Splunk HEC Errors**: Verify HEC URL and token are correct
3. **Permission Denied**: Check file permissions for configuration file
4. **Memory Usage**: Monitor batch size settings for high-volume environments

### Logs

Check service logs for diagnostic information:

```bash
# Systemd
journalctl -u relay -f

# Docker
docker logs <container_id>
```

## Documentation

Documentation is organised using the [Diátaxis framework](https://diataxis.fr/) for clarity and discoverability. See [docs/](docs/) for the complete documentation structure.

### Architecture Decision Records

Key architectural decisions and their rationale are documented as Architecture Decision Records (ADRs). See [docs/explanation/adr/](docs/explanation/adr/) for the complete list of decisions including:

- Why we use Go Task instead of Make
- Daily log rotation based on UTC
- NDJSON format for local storage
- Store-first, forward-second approach
- And more...

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Support

For issues and questions:
- Create an issue in the GitHub repository
- Check the troubleshooting section above
- Review logs for error messages

Commit message:

[ISSUE-13] Closes #13 by adding live reload of config

README.md, after:

![logo](relay.logo.large.png)

Relay is a high-performance TCP relay service that receives Zscaler ZPA LSS (Log Streaming Service) data and forwards it to Splunk HEC (HTTP Event Collector). The application acts as a streaming middleware that persists logs locally as NDJSON files and optionally forwards them to Splunk HEC in real-time.

## Features

- **TCP Server**: Accepts incoming connections from Zscaler ZPA LSS
- **Data Validation**: JSON validation for incoming log lines
- **Local Storage**: Daily-rotated NDJSON file persistence
- **Splunk HEC Integration**: Optional real-time forwarding to Splunk's HTTP Event Collector
- **TLS Support**: Optional TLS encryption for incoming connections
- **Access Control**: CIDR-based IP filtering
- **Configuration Flexibility**: Command-line flags with optional YAML configuration
- **Template Generation**: Built-in configuration template generator
- **Health Checks**: Smoke testing for Splunk HEC connectivity
- **Graceful Shutdown**: Handles system signals for clean service termination

## How it Works

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    autonumber
    participant AC as ZPA App Connector (appliance)
    participant ZC as Zscaler Cloud
    participant LSS as ZPA Log Streaming Service
    participant R as Relay
    participant FS as Local Storage (NDJSON)
    participant HEC as Splunk HEC (/services/collector/raw)

    Note over AC,ZC: Operational & audit data flows from App Connector up to Zscaler Cloud
    AC-->>ZC: Telemetry, audit, user/app metrics (proprietary)

    Note over LSS,R: LSS initiates outbound connection to your receiver
    LSS-)R: TCP/TLS connect to relay:port
    activate R

    loop Streaming (long-lived socket)
      LSS-->>R: NDJSON event "\n" (one JSON object per line)
      R->>FS: append line to zpa-YYYY-MM-DD.ndjson
      alt HEC forwarding enabled
        R->>HEC: HTTPS POST (optional gzip) with original JSON line
        HEC-->>R: 2xx (ingested)  / non-2xx (retry/backoff)
      end
    end
    deactivate R

    Note over R,HEC: Relay may batch/retry. Splunk indexes by event time or ingest time depending on props
```

## Requirements

- Go 1.21 or later
- Access to a Splunk instance with HEC enabled
- Network connectivity between Zscaler ZPA and the relay service

## Installation

### From Source

```bash
git clone https://github.com/scottbrown/relay.git
cd relay
go build -o relay cmd/relay/main.go
```

### Using Task Runner

If you have [Task](https://taskfile.dev/) installed:

```bash
task build
```

This creates the binary at `.build/relay`.

## Configuration

### Configuration File (Optional)

The application can optionally use a YAML configuration file. Create one using the template generator:

```bash
./relay -t > config.yml
```

Example configuration:

```yaml
# TCP/TLS server settings
listen_addr: ":9015"                    # TCP listen address (e.g., :9015)
tls_cert_file: ""                       # TLS cert file (optional)
tls_key_file: ""                        # TLS key file (optional)

# Storage settings
output_dir: "./zpa-logs"                # Directory to persist NDJSON files

# Splunk HEC settings
splunk_hec_url: "https://your-instance.splunkcloud.com:8088/services/collector/raw"
splunk_token: "your-hec-token-here"     # Splunk HEC token
source_type: "zpa:lss"                  # Splunk sourcetype

# Security settings
allowed_cidrs: ""                       # Comma-separated CIDRs allowed to connect (optional)

# Performance settings
gzip_hec: true                          # Gzip compress payloads to HEC
max_line_bytes: 1048576                 # Max bytes per JSON line (1 MiB)
```

### Generate Configuration Template

```bash
./relay -t > config.yml
```

### Configuration Options

| Option | Description | Required | Default |
|--------|-------------|----------|---------|
| `listen_addr` | TCP listen address | No | `:9015` |
| `tls_cert_file` | TLS certificate file | No | - |
| `tls_key_file` | TLS key file | No | - |
| `output_dir` | Directory for NDJSON files | No | `./zpa-logs` |
| `splunk_hec_url` | Splunk HEC raw endpoint URL | No | - |
| `splunk_token` | Splunk HEC authentication token | No | - |
| `source_type` | Splunk sourcetype | No | `zpa:lss` |
| `allowed_cidrs` | Comma-separated allowed CIDRs | No | - |
| `gzip_hec` | Gzip compress HEC payloads | No | `true` |
| `max_line_bytes` | Max bytes per JSON line | No | `1048576` |

## Usage

### Basic Usage

```bash
# Run with default settings (local storage only)
./relay

# Run with Splunk HEC forwarding
./relay -hec-url https://your-splunk.com:8088/services/collector/raw -hec-token your-token

# Run with configuration file
./relay -f /path/to/config.yml

# Test Splunk HEC connectivity
./relay -smoke-test -hec-url https://your-splunk.com:8088/services/collector/raw -hec-token your-token
```

### Command-Line Options

```bash
./relay [options]

Options:
  -listen string
        TCP listen address (e.g., :9015)
  -tls-cert string
        TLS cert file (optional)
  -tls-key string
        TLS key file (optional)
  -out string
        Directory to persist NDJSON
  -hec-url string
        Splunk HEC raw endpoint
  -hec-token string
        Splunk HEC token
  -hec-sourcetype string
        Splunk sourcetype
  -allow-cidrs string
        Comma-separated CIDRs allowed to connect
  -hec-gzip
        Gzip compress payloads to HEC
  -max-line-bytes int
        Max bytes per JSON line
  -f string
        Configuration file path
  -t    Output configuration template and exit
  -smoke-test
        Test Splunk HEC connectivity and exit
```

### Running Directly with Go

```bash
go run cmd/relay/main.go -hec-url https://your-splunk.com:8088/services/collector/raw -hec-token your-token
```

### Reload Configuration

Relay watches for `SIGHUP` and, when a configuration file is provided, reloads the YAML without stopping the process. Splunk HEC credentials, sourcetype, gzip settings, `allowed_cidrs`, `max_line_bytes`, and health-check settings are applied immediately (CLI flag overrides are respected). Listener address, TLS files, and `output_dir` still require a restart; Relay will log a warning if those values change on reload.

```bash
# Trigger reload after editing relay.yml
kill -HUP $(pgrep relay)
```

## Architecture

### Data Flow

1. **TCP/TLS Listener**: Accepts connections on the configured address (default :9015)
2. **Access Control**: Optional CIDR-based filtering for incoming connections
3. **Data Validation**: Incoming NDJSON data is validated and line-limited for security
4. **Local Storage**: Data is persisted locally to daily-rotated files (zpa-YYYY-MM-DD.ndjson)
5. **Real-time Forwarding**: Optional concurrent forwarding to Splunk HEC raw endpoint with retry logic

### Event Format

Data is forwarded to Splunk HEC as raw JSON events (one per line) without additional wrapping. The sourcetype is configurable (default: "zpa:lss").

## Monitoring and Logging

The service logs to stdout and includes:
- Connection status messages
- Batch processing information
- Error conditions
- Graceful shutdown notifications

## Development

### Prerequisites

- Go 1.24.4+
- Task runner (optional)

### Building

```bash
# Using Go directly
go build -o relay cmd/relay/main.go

# Using Task
task build
```

### Running Tests

```bash
go test -v
```

### Dependencies

- `gopkg.in/yaml.v3` - YAML configuration parsing
- Go standard library only

## Deployment

### Systemd Service

Create `/etc/systemd/system/relay.service`:

```ini
[Unit]
Description=Zscaler ZPA LSS Relay Service
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple
User=relay
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/relay -f /etc/relay/config.yml
Restart=always
RestartSec=5

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Enable and start:

```bash
sudo systemctl enable relay
sudo systemctl start relay
```

### Docker

```dockerfile
FROM golang:1.24-alpine AS builder
WORKDIR /app
COPY . .
RUN go build -o relay cmd/relay/main.go

FROM alpine:latest
RUN apk --no-cache add ca-certificates
WORKDIR /root/
COPY --from=builder /app/relay .
COPY config.yml .
CMD ["./relay", "-f", "config.yml"]
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Connection Refused**: Ensure the listen port is not in use and firewall allows connections
2. **Splunk HEC Errors**: Verify HEC URL and token are correct
3. **Permission Denied**: Check file permissions for configuration file
4. **Memory Usage**: Monitor batch size settings for high-volume environments

### Logs

Check service logs for diagnostic information:

```bash
# Systemd
journalctl -u relay -f

# Docker
docker logs <container_id>
```

## Documentation

Documentation is organised using the [Diátaxis framework](https://diataxis.fr/) for clarity and discoverability. See [docs/](docs/) for the complete documentation structure.

### Architecture Decision Records

Key architectural decisions and their rationale are documented as Architecture Decision Records (ADRs). See [docs/explanation/adr/](docs/explanation/adr/) for the complete list of decisions including:

- Why we use Go Task instead of Make
- Daily log rotation based on UTC
- NDJSON format for local storage
- Store-first, forward-second approach
- And more...

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Support

For issues and questions:
- Create an issue in the GitHub repository
- Check the troubleshooting section above
- Review logs for error messages
